Problem solving is the key skill of the job.
During the exam you will be reading a question or a case and the problem it is describing should start to inform and define a solution in your mind. The faster and more clearly you can understand the requirements and identify elements that might be part of the solution, the better the chances are that you will understand the question correctly and be able to identify the correct answer. This is what we mean by the best preparation for the exam is to be prepared for the job.

Practice problem solving
There are sample/practice exam-type questions throughout this course and a simulated exam quiz at the end. Don't just read through these or watch these for information. It is not there to teach you the right answer to a particular question. It is there to give you the opportunity to practice using your problem-solving skills, which you will need on the job and for the exam.

Practice evaluating your own confidence about information, an answer, or a solution.
Another skill that will help you on the job and on the exam is being able to evaluate your own confidence about your knowledge. People often assume that they either know something or they don't know it, they either recall it or they don't. But in fact, recall is much less binary than that. What we don't often get the chance to practice is evaluating how well we know something or how certain we are of answers or solutions.

This is really important. Because if you know that you are not certain of something, then you can use that as a guide to help you decide what to study, how to prioritize your study time, and how much effort to apply.

This means that you learn more from missing a question and answering it incorrectly in this course than from answering it correctly. When you miss a question, it is an indicator to take note that this is something you might want to study to better prepare for the exam.

How much confidence do you want? I will often dig into the documentation and not only prove to myself exactly why the correct answer is correct. But I will also continue studying until I know with absolute certainty exactly why each incorrect answer is wrong. I want to be able to state the reason it is not correct. Because that is how I know that I have studied enough.
